

Strategic Management of Technological Innovation
GENERAL COURSE INFORMATION:
Faculty name/title:	Dr. Omar Antonio Alvarez-Pousa, Adjunct Professor
E-mail:	Oa5@nyu.edu

Course title: Course number:

Strategic Management of Technological Innovation MASY1-GC 3310-500

Credits as applicable:	3 Semester/Year	Fall 2021 Number of Classes:		14
Dates/Day(s):	09/07/2021 - 12/14/2021 / Tuesdays
Time:	06:20pm -- 08:55pm EDT/EST
Mode of Delivery:	Online - Synchronous
No Class Dates:	Tuesday, October 12, 2021
Special Notes	Choose an item.
Location	Online
Office Hours	Tuesdays from 5:00 PM to 6:00 PM (EST), Online via NYU
Brightspace / Zoom, appointment is needed 24 hours in advance via email to the professor.

COURSE DESCRIPTION:
This course prepares students to meet the demands of strategic planning in a technology-driven organization. It addresses optimizing the R&D (Research and Development) cycle, smooth transition from design to production, innovation streams, and integration of technology with business strategy. Focusing on case studies, students learn real-world technology decision- making strategies, including allocation of resources, managing complex technology initiatives, and management of technology teams. The course examines the role technological innovations play in the competitive dynamics of industries and the use of metrics to evaluate new product effectiveness and innovation performance. Students create individual proposals for applications of technological innovations to address business needs.

COURSE PREREQUISITES: N/A

COURSE STRUCTURE/METHOD:
Format & Frequency:
This course will be facilitated synchronously online through NYU Brightspace and the Zoom Virtual Classroom, in weekly manner. To access your course, log in to NYU Home with your NetID and Password. Then, select NYU Brightspace. You will access the Zoom Virtual Classroom through NYU Brightspace. Zoom is the remote instruction platform used at NYU.

Students are expected to participate in all class sessions including in class work using a laptop or tablet computer. They are expected to check NYU Brightspace and their NYU email

accounts at least once every day for changes to course meetings and/or assignments, how and when students will meet for class sessions or group work, whether the course will involve lecture or discussion, team projects, and so forth.
Students will develop a solid foundation in the strategic management of technological innovation by first understanding the industry dynamics of technological innovation, then learning how to formulate a technological innovation strategy, and then practicing its implementation. Most importantly they will also understand and have confidence in what they know and what else they need to know to practice at a higher professional level.
Prior to starting the course, students should be able to:
• Understand the basics of probability, statistics and decision–making
• Quickly search for, identify and then retrieve high-quality information
• Use Microsoft Word to write briefing reports, study guides, papers, etc., including citations and references in APA style, according to a predefined specification
• Use Microsoft Excel to analyze data, prepare tables and charts and insert them into documents.

Sessions Dynamics: in each session professor appoints two students to perform the role of “Timekeeper” and “Notetaker”. Timekeeper will control the time of each presenter. Notetaker will document in MS Word the observations made by students, guest speakers, subject matter experts, external judges, or professor to each presenter. Notetaker will send the document to professor via NYU email who, after review, will post it in NYU Brightspace.


COURSE LEARNING OUTCOMES:
At the conclusion of this course, students will be able to:
 Apply innovation concepts to the management of technological innovation
 Apply analysis tools to determine the success potential of applying an innovation
 Apply an emerging technology to create economic benefit for an organization
 Design intellectual property protection strategies for the created innovations
 Create metrics to increase the success rate of technological innovation application projects

COMMUNICATION POLICY:
Professor’s NYU email address: oa5@nyu.edu
Students and Professor will use their NYU email address to communicate and may also communicate through NYU Brightspace messages. NYU Brightspace messages supports student privacy and FERPA guidelines.
Students should communicate with Professor through NYU Brightspace messages; Professor usually answers any email received from a student within 24 business hours.

Students can add their pronouns and the pronunciation of their names through the following process:	https://www.nyu.edu/students/student-information-and-resources/registration-records- and-graduation/forms-policies-procedures/change-of-student-information/pronouns-and-name- pronunciation.html.


COURSE EXPECTATIONS:

Course Policies:
The course is designed to emulate the professional environment of the working world, as such, students are expected to be prompt, professional and engaged. I expect you to come to the virtual classroom eager to learn and prepared to discuss your project and provide analytical feedback to your colleague’s presentations.

Based on the design of this course discussions and group learning activities are designed to help you improve your project, the projects of your colleagues, and also to learn from other projects.

Each student has the responsibility to make his/her assigned presentations of the highest possible quality in order to make everyone’s learning experience the best it can possibly be, and every student is expected to actively contribute to the classroom discussion.

By taking this course, you agree to be bound by this syllabus and any subsequent revisions to it. The professor may modify this syllabus at his discretion, and changes will be disclosed in class and on NYU Brightspace. It is your responsibility to check your NYU email daily for messages related to this course.

Students who join the course during add/drop are responsible for ensuring that they identify what assignments and preparatory work they have missed and complete and submit those per the syllabus

Use of cell phones, smart phones and other communications devices are forbidden at any time during class. Your grade will reflect observed use of said devices. There will be breaks and times to check on people who need to contact you. Keep the phone in emergency manner and you will be able to step out the class and take any call in that matter. Not having the rings will help all of us stay focused and use the class time to maximum advantage. It is also a mark of professional respect for your fellow students. More than two observations of use will trigger a course grade reduction of ⅓ of a letter grade for every class in which such observations are made (e.g., A to A-). If you need an exception to this electronic device policy for an unusual circumstance at work or home, please speak with the instructor in advance

If you do not attend class, you will not be able to participate and you will have more difficulty building your project and learning from others, conducting a comprehensive literature review, and preparing a thorough and focused research design for your business plan.

Since the class begins at 6:20 PM (EST), I expect you to be in the class and ready to begin discussion at 6:20 PM sharp. We will hold class until 8:55 PM (EST) each night and sometimes a bit later to complete discussions as necessary - staying beyond the concluding course scheduled time of 8:55 PM (EST) will be optional and in that case the attendance or absence will not be considered into student attendance grade since it is optional. I am always willing to stay later to help review business plans individually or help you understand cases or material that is new to you.

Usually, for each hour of class we will have a break of 10’. This will be reflected in the class Agenda

ZOOM Participation: All students should have their video camera ON, and the student facing the camera, during the entire class session. If a student has a technical or

personal issue this can be escalated to the professor to justify not having the video camera on. Recommendation: Use virtual background to protect your privacy.


Attendance is required and your grade will reflect your attendance. Sometimes absences are unavoidable and the professor recognizes this. In the event you must miss a class or leave early, you will respect this class and the interactive learning process by informing the professor in advance.

Students are expected to attend all classes. The valid calendar for our course is the NYU calendar published at: https://www.nyu.edu/registrar/calendars/university-academic- calendar.html#1168 .

Students are responsible for assignments given during any absence.

If you are unable to come to class due to an emergency, please let me know by sending an email. Students who miss class for medical reasons are required to notify their instructor of their absence and may be asked to produce a doctor’s documentation of treatment at the next class.

After two consecutive absences, or four during the semester, professor will contact student’s academic advisor to report this case and look for ways to get the student back to class with the knowledge needed and activities planned.

Excused absences are granted in cases of documented serious illness, family emergency, religious observance, or civic obligation. In the case of religious observance or civic obligation, this should be reported in advance.

Unexcused absences from sessions have a negative impact on a student’s performance and final grade: One unexcused absence will be noted; two unexcused absences will be notified to student’s academic advisor; three unexcused absences during the semester should earn a Fail
(F) grade for the course.

University Calendar Policy on Religious Holidays: http://www.nyu.edu/about/policies- guidelines-compliance/policies-and-guidelines/university-calendar-policy-on-religious- holidays.html

Students may enter the Zoom meeting room late or leave class early only if given permission by the instructor.

If you miss a class session, you are expected to obtain any information from fellow students.

Classroom Expectations
As graduate students, you are expected to conduct yourselves in a professional manner and engage and collaborate with your classmates in the Zoom meeting room. Here are our guiding principles:
1. Dress as if you are in the Classroom.
2. Keep your microphone muted unless asking a question or engaging in discussion.
3. Check your video and audio when entering your class session.
4. Think background, minimize distractions around you.
5. Look into the camera instead of looking at the screen.

6. Type quietly, mute if necessary.
7. Don’t eat during a Zoom class session and refrain from engaging in any activity such as smoking, consuming alcohol, etc. that you would not engage in if the class was in person.
SPS classrooms are diverse and include students who range in age, culture, learning styles, and levels of professional experience. To maintain an inclusive environment that ensures all students can equally participate with and learn from each other, as well as receive feedback and instruction from faculty during group discussions in the classroom, all course-based discussions and group projects should occur in a language that is shared among all participants.

Assignments:
All assignments will be posted at NYU Brightspace and the templates uploaded to the folder on NYU Brightspace labeled “Assignments.”

Assignment due dates are final and non-negotiable.

Materials during excused absences: You should find out what was covered in the missed session by speaking to a fellow classmate and checking the NYU Brightspace course site to review all the resources provided by your instructor.

If you missed assignments during the add/drop course process, contact your instructor regarding makeup assignments that may be provided to you

 There will be Individual Assignments on the specific topic(s) covered in the related classes.
o Usually under MS PowerPoint Presentation
 There will be 2 team Case Studies on the specific topics selected by the instructor.
o Usually under MS PowerPoint Presentation
 There will be 1 individual innovative idea introduction high level presentation.
o Length of Innovative Idea under MS PowerPoint Presentation slides to convince
the audience why such idea needs to be implemented and how such idea will solve the problem.
 There will be 1 Final Case Project centered on the specific industry selected by students where students will design a plan for technological innovation, perform the study, and
present the findings.
o Length of Final Case Study: should of the length sufficient to present feasible innovative solution to the problem, under MS PowerPoint Presentation


INDIVIDUAL ASSIGNMENTS:

Students are expected to complete individual readings and complete individual assignments during the course. Frequent and high-quality participation in class discussions is required.

FINAL CASE PROJECT:

The Final Case Project will be due by Class 14 and formally presented during that session to Professor and we may have External Judges invited in order to review the presentation and provide constructive feedback to each project.

The purpose of the project is to provide students with a hands-on experience with the intricacies, complexities, planning, meeting requirements, making presentation, and project reporting.
You will be provided with the structure and opportunity to develop a professional caliber High Level Business Plan. You will accomplish this by application of the skills and ideas you have learned in your other courses at NYU and through feedback from your professor, peers and panelists (in response to your class presentations, your final presentation)

You will also observe how others’ ideas and presentations have been received and challenged, which you will sometimes have to infer how your own ideas can be improved. You should be an active contributor to others’ ideas.

We can consider the Final Case Project developments as part of a collaborative workshop.

All students should be ready to present the status and content of hers/his Final Case Project in each class (based on progress detailed in Syllabus – Course Outline). This activity is considered Class Participation and Final Case Project.

It will be a much more rewarding exercise for you however, the stronger your business idea is, so in general the more preparation and thought you put into your idea – both in advance of the first day of class and throughout the semester – the more gratifying your outcome will be and the more you will get out of the course.

In case that a student is willing to develop and APP as Final Case Project you will need to follow Systems Devolvement Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology and the high-level informatics needs to be addressed as well as infrastructure to support the APP. Professor will provide specific guidance and template in this case.


Having completed the project, students are required to submit a final presentation, which includes a deck of the project and its expectations.


CASE STUDIES:
To better facilitate discussion and student engagement, the class might be divided into groups for Case Analysis.

All team members should contribute to the case studies. Submit a single paper for the team identifying which team member contributed to which part of the case. Include your team number, team members, date, type each question and answers, and include in text and end references. The team cases will be evaluated on both and individual and group level.

Please refer to the Course Outline below for Readings, Class Assignments and Cases. Please review the Grading Policy below.


Submission of Deliverables

Delivery occurs when a student’s work is available on the Brightspace Assignment folder for the course.
 Assignments Due: Individual Assignments and Group Assignments are part of this course and will be collected from you evidencing your work in this course submitted
through NYU Brightspace, before due date. Templates for answering the Assignments will be provided by professor through NYU Brightspace / Resources / Assignments
 The Final Case Project Assignment: It is an Assignment that covers your entire High Level Business Plan, submitted through NYU Brightspace, before due date. Template for
developing the Final Assignment will be provided by professor through NYU Brightspace
/ Resources / Assignments. The student will present the case fully developed during Session #14
 Due Date: Assignments will be accepted only until due date (EST). Late submissions will not be accepted. Not submitting Assignment on time will be considered
Fail (F). Assignments are due on planned date and no due date extensions are available, No Exceptions.
 Submissions: All assignments must be posted by the student in NYU Brightspace
and cannot be submitted to the professor in any other way (neither email nor hard copies
delivered to professor or any Faculty member are acceptable).


Technology Policy:
Class sessions require use of technology (e.g., laptop) for communication, learning, and research purposes. Each student will be required to perform research, type the assignments, and submit them to the instructor via NYU’s website.

Online Technical Support:
IT Service Desk: (212)-998-3333 (24 hours a day, 7 days a week) Email: AskIT@nyu.edu
Zoom Support
 NYU Zoom Guide for Students
 Make sure you are using NYU Zoom to log-in for class
 Check the NYU Zoom site often for updates. (To update Zoom, you can also open from your desktop and click menu, then “Check for Updates.”)
Brightspace Support
 Log-in to the Brightspace platform or visit the Student Training website.
 Video on how to Navigate the Bright Space Learning Environment
Class Participation:
 It is required that students attend all classes and are part of the group case studies that will take place in class. Each student is expected to contribute to the in-class discussions. Each session will require students to read the case studies prior to that session. Each student is required to contribute her or his own ideas, opinions and feedback during group discussions of the case study.

Student Participation Grade, graded by course professor. Letter Grade – Max: 100 Points Evaluation. Your grade will be based on frequency and relevancy of your contribution to online classes and NYU Brightspace Forums. The best contributions will provide insight that adds
to the analysis, or raises questions showing an understanding of the concept or business plan. Participation should be regular and thoughtful.

Guidelines for Evaluating participation:
o Outstanding Contributor: Ideas offered are always substantive and provide one or more major insights as well as direction for the class. Challenges are well substantiated and persuasively presented. If this person were not a member of the class, the quality of discussion would be diminished markedly. 100 Points
o Good Contributor: Ideas offered are usually substantive and provide good insights and sometimes direction for the class. Challenges are often well substantiated and persuasive. If this person were not a member of the class, the quality of discussion would be diminished. 90 Points
o Adequate Contributor: Ideas offered are sometimes substantive and provide generally useful insights but seldom offer a new direction for the discussion. Challenges are sometimes presented, fairly well substantiated, and sometimes persuasive. If this person were not a member of the class, the quality of discussion would be diminished somewhat. 80 Points
o Non-Participant: This person says little or nothing in discussions. Hence, there is not an adequate basis for evaluation. If this person were not a member of the class, the quality of discussion would not be changed. 70 Points
o Unsatisfactory Contributor: Contributions reflect inadequate preparation. Ideas offered are seldom substantive and provide few if any insights and never a constructive direction for the discussion. Integrative comments and effective challenges are absent. 40 Points

o	assignments via Brightspace.

REQUIRED AND RECOMMENDED MATERIAL
Required Text Books
1. Schilling, M. A. (2020). Strategic Management of Technological Innovation. 6th Edition, McGraw-Hill Education. ISBN: 9781260087956

This book is a part of the Follett Access program. This is an NYU Bookstore initiative that delivers required course materials digitally at the lowest possible price. The book for this course Strategic Management of Technological Innovation, will be delivered to you digitally through the CONNECT platform. Here is the - link.

Bookstore contact info: email - wsq.text@nyu.edu
phone - 212-998-4656

Brief Table of Contents
Preface
1. Introduction	1
PART ONE	Industry Dynamics of Technological Innovation	13
2. Sources of Innovation	15
3. Types and Patterns of Innovation	43
4. Standards Battles and Design Dominance	67
5. Timing of Entry	95

PART TWOFormulating Technological Innovation Strategy1136. Defining the Organization's Strategic Direction1157. Choosing Innovation Projects1418. Collaboration Strategies1679. Protecting Innovation197PART THREEImplementing Technological Innovation Strategy22310. Organizing for Innovation22511. Managing the New Product Development Process
249
12. Managing New Product Development Teams	277
13. Crafting a Deployment Strategy	297
Index	327
2. Yuri B. Aguiar (2020). Digital (R)evolution: Strategies to Accelerate Business Transformation. 1st Edition, John Wiley & Sons, ISBN-13: 978-1119619734, ISBN-10: 1119619734
Amazon: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B086Z84Y81/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?
_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1

Brief Table of Contents
Preface















Required Papers
1. 
Drivers of Change	1
2. Focus and Discipline	17
3. Idea Incubation	27
4. Operational Excellence	45
5. Customer-Driven Change	57
6. Strategy vs. Execution	73
7. Hire Captains, Not Kings of Queens	85
8. Integrated Ecosystems	101
9. Digital Proficiency and Innovation	125
10. Are You “Digitally Determined” or “Digitally Distraught”?	137
11. Use Case: The Smart City	159
12. Looking Ahead: Runway or Precipice?	169
13. AI: The Elephant in the Room	189
Index	227

	Rita McGrath and Ryan McManus (2020). Harvard Business Review: Discovery-Driven Digital Transformation, Reprint: R2002J, May-June 2020
Harvard Business Publishing Education (HBPE). Students will need to register to HBPE in order to get access to the the digital course pack with the paper detailed above.
Student Link: https://hbsp.harvard.edu/import/857331 Name of the course pack: NYU MASY Strategic Management and Technological Innovation - ALVAREZ-POUSA

Recommended Papers
 McGahan, A. M. (2000). How industries evolve. Business Strategy Review, 11(3), 1-16.
 McGahan, A. M. (2004). How industries change. Harvard Business Review, 82(10), 86-94.

 Nadan, J. S. (2014). Using innovation science to minimize entrepreneurial risk. In Innovations in Technology Conference (InnoTek), 2014 IEEE (pp. 1-7). IEEE.
 Porter, M. E. (2008) The Five Competitive Forces that Shape Strategy
 Ulwick, A. W. (2009). What Is Outcome-Driven Innovation® (ODI)? White Paper, Strategy
 Michaelides, D. (2011). The art of innovation in the public sector. International Journal of Innovation Science, 3(3), 117-126.

ASSESSMENT STRATEGY:

GRADING RUBRICIndividual Class participationAll10 %Group Class participationAll10%Industry Case Studies by GroupSession 4 and 6, 5 % each10%Individual AssignmentsSessions 3, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 1320%Individual Innovative Business Idea introductionSession 510%Midtermsession 710%Final Individual Case Studysession 1430%TOTAL100%


%
.
With regard to the case studies students will be expected to work in groups and show a progressively more in-depth knowledge of their industry as the semester progresses. The focus of the assignments will advance from the descriptive and basic topics to the analytical and advanced subjects.
Homework assignments will focus on lesson topics. Students will be expected to provide, concise, tersely written papers reflecting a strong grasp of the subject matter. There will be equal weightings for structure – clarity of presentation – and content.
*Please note that you will be provided with the parameters and the additional criteria on how you will be measured for each of the assessments listed above in class

NYUSPS POLICIES:
CENTER FOR STUDENT ACCESSIBILITY
If you are a student who is requesting accommodations, please contact New York University’s Moses Center for Students Accessibility (CSA) at 212-998-4980 or mosescsa@nyu.edu. You must be registered with CSA to receive accommodations. Information about the Moses Center can be found at www.nyu.edu/csa. The Moses Center is located at 726 Broadway on the 3rd floor.

HEALTH AND WELLNESS
To access the University's extensive health and mental health resources, contact the NYU Wellness Exchange. You can call its private hotline (212-443-9999), available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to reach out to a professional who can help to address day-to-day challenges as well as other health-related concerns.

ACADEMIC INTEGRITY AND PLAGIARISM POLICY
All students are expected to be honest and ethical in all academic work. This trust is shared among all members of the University community and is a core principle of American higher education. Any breaches of this trust will be taken seriously. A hallmark of the educated student and good scholarship is the ability to acknowledge information derived from others. Students are expected to be scrupulous in crediting those sources that have contributed to the development of their ideas.
Plagiarism involves borrowing or using information from other sources without proper and full credit. Students are expected to demonstrate how what they have learned incorporates an understanding of the research and expertise of scholars and other appropriate experts; and thus recognizing others' published work or teachings—whether that of authors, lecturers, or one's peers—is a required practice in all academic projects.
Students are subject to disciplinary actions for the following offenses which include but are not limited to:
 Cheating
 Plagiarism
 Forgery or unauthorized use of documents
 False form of identification
Use the link below to read more about Academic Integrity Policies at the NYU School of
Professional Studies. Academic Policies for NYU SPS Students

TurnItIn:
TurnItIn is a plagiarism detection software used to verify academic originality. It is available only to degree courses and students.
Some assignments in this course may be checked for plagiarism using TurnItIn.

NYU SCHOOL OF PROFESSIONAL STUDIES GRADUATE GRADING SCALE
Grading for graduate programs is by letter grade: A, A-, B+, B, B-, C+, C, C-, and F. For NYUSPS’s complete graduate grading policies, including criteria for a grade of incomplete, taking a course on a pass/fail basis, and withdrawing from a course, see: https://www.sps.nyu.edu/homepage/student- experience/policies-and-procedures.html#Graduate1

Letter%GPADescriptionsDefinitionsA95-1004.0ExceptionalDemonstrates exceptional mastery of all learning outcomes of the course and thorough and complete understanding of all concepts.A-90-943.7ExcellentDemonstrates highly competent mastery of all learning outcomes of the course and strong understanding of all concepts.B+87-893.3Very Good; exceeds course standardsDemonstrates mastery of all learning outcomes of the course and understanding of core concepts.B83-863.0Good; meets course standardsDemonstrates mastery of some learning outcomes; understanding of some core concepts could be improved.B-80-822.7Somewhat Satisfactory; meets some course standards and requires improvementDemonstrates basic understanding of some learning outcomes; improved understanding of all core concepts is needed.C+77-792.3Less than Satisfactory; requires significant improvementDemonstrates partial understanding of all learning outcomes and core concepts; requires significant improvement.C73-762.0Unsatisfactory; requires substantial improvementDemonstrates partial understanding of some learning outcomes and core concepts; requires substantial improvement.C-70-721.7Unsatisfactory; requires extensive improvementDemonstrates poor understanding of all learning outcomes and core concepts; requires extensive improvement.FBelow 700.0FailDemonstrates minimal to no understanding of all key learning outcomes and core concepts; work is unworthy of course credit towards the degree.

COURSE OUTLINE:
Start/End Dates: 09/07/2021 - 12/14/2021 / Tuesdays
Time: 06:20pm -- 08:55pm EDT/EST
No Class Date(s): Tuesday, October 12, 2021
 The course will cover the chapters listed below. Prior to each class session, please read the chapter(s) listed that will be covered on that specific date. Completed individual assignments, team cases, individual final case, should be uploaded to Brightspace when due. (STUDENTS ARE REQUIRED TO USE A LAPTOP OR TABLET COMPUTER IN EACH CLASS)


Modular Course Structure








Module 1 Technological Innovation (T.I.)


Module 2
T.I. Strategy
   
Module 3 Implementing
T.I. Strategy








MODULE 1: TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION (T.I.) - FROM SESSION 01 TO SESSION 05 MODULE 2: T.I. STRATEGY – FROM SESSION 06 TO SESSION 09
MODULE 3: IMPLEMENTING T.I. STRATEGY –	FROM SESSION 10 TO SESSION 14

Class 1: 09/07/21

•


Module 1: TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION (T.I.)


Session 1, 09/07/21
Topic Description: Course Intro – Course Dynamics - Innovation

Outline of Topics:
1 Introduction:
 Introductions of students and instructor
 Review of Syllabus
 Introduction to the Course and Overview of Course Requirements and Assignments
2 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 1 - Introduction
 Discuss the importance innovation for firms to compete.
 Demonstrate the advantages and disadvantages of technological innovation.
 Explain why some innovation projects fail to generate and economic return.
 Describe innovation by industry and the importance of strategy.
 Illustrate the innovation funnel.
3 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 1 – Drivers of Change
 What is discovery-driven digital transformation?
 What’s left for humans?
 Is your company a candidate for digital disruption?
 Why discovery-driven digital transformation is needed?
 How to get from the current state to the digital level?
4 Reading:
 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 1 – Introduction
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 1 – Drivers of Change
5 Video to discuss in class:
 What is Innovation?	MIT OpenCourseWare https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=oD7X3KvJAVk
6 Deliverables:
 Individual Assignment 1A – Your Intro

Session 2, 09/14/21
Topic Description: Sources of Innovation Outline of Topics:
1. Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 2 – Sources of Innovation
 Explain the government’s role in conducting research and development.
 Describe how private nonprofit organizations are a source of innovation.
 Illustrate how organizations perform their own R&D and also fund R&D that is
performed by others.
 Discuss how the most significant source of innovation is a result of collaborative efforts.
 Explain how collaboration is often facilitated by geographical proximity.
 Discuss the benefits of technology spillovers.
2. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 2 – Focus and Discipline
 Who is responsible for transformation?
 How to identify the opportunity to discover specific problems that can be addressed in a digital solution?
 How different are the “Always-on” digital natives?
 What is needed for your immediate survival?

 Does discovery-driven digital transformation need to be micromanaged?
3. Video to discuss in class:
 Innovation, sources of individual creativity:	https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=j3jKzYnzC6c&t
4. Reading:
 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 2 – Sources of Innovation
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 2 – Focus and Discipline
5. Forum:
 Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: The Rise of “Clean Meat”,
6. Video for students Exploration:
• “The Era of Open Innovation” (TED Talk): https://www.ted.com/talks/charles_leadbeater_on_innovation?language=en
Deliverables:
• Teams formation

Session 3, 09/21/21
Topic Description: Types of Innovation
Outline of Topics:
1. Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 3 – Types and Patterns of Innovation
 Discuss how the dominant design rarely embodies the most advanced technological
features available at the time of emergence.
 List and explain some reasons that established firms might resist adopting new technology.
 Illustrate the reasons why both technology improvement and technology diffusion exhibit s-shape curves.
 Explain the benefits of a company developing technology beyond the current state of the market needs.
 Discuss the factors that influence the length of technology cycles in an industry.
 Explain why technology that initially serves on low-end customers may eventually meet the needs of the mass market.
2. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 3 – Idea Incubation
 Why innovation is essential for success?
 What’s the challenge with the digital transformation in high-performing organizations?
 How to overcome inclination to risk avoidance?
 Why organizations need empowered champions?
 Why most of the organizations struggle with the transformation?
 How to approach and propose the transformation?
3. Reading:
 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 3 – Types and Patterns of Innovation
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 3 – Idea Incubation
 Forum:
4. Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Innovating in India: The Chotukool Project

5. Videos for class discussion:
 Varieties of Innovation - MIT OpenCourseWare https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=1mw_Uo5ba58
6. Video for students Exploration:
 Types and Patterns of Innovation	Shirley Shmerling : Https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkWnxzgC1Z4
Deliverables:
Individual Assignment 1 – Due: 09/21/21
Assignment 1
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 1-3
o Review the relevant materials
o Research the topic
o Answer the following questions:
 Is your company/industry a candidate for digital disruption?
 What is needed for your company/industry immediate survival?
 Why most of organizations struggle with the innovative transformation?

Session 4, 09/28/21
Topic Description: Platform Competition
Outline of Topics:
1. Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 4 – Standard Battles, Modularity, and Platform Competition
 Discuss how many technologies demonstrate increasing returns to adoption,
meaning that the more they are adopted the more valuable they become.
 Explain one primary source of increasing returns s learning-curve effects.
 Describe how the more a technology is produced and used the better understood
and developed it becomes.
 Explain another key factor creating increasing returns is network externality effects.
 Discuss how in some industries the consumer welfare benefits if having a single
standard have prompted government regulations.
 Explain how increasing returns can lead to winner take all.
2. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 4 – Operational Excellence
 What’s the relationship between operational excellence and customer experience?
 Who are your customers in the “service” economy?
 How to use data and analytics to make a case to executives and others?
 Where to look for the problems and pain points?
 Is the response time or solution time that matter?
3. Reading:
 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 4 – Standard Battles, Modularity, and Platform Competition
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 4 – Operational Excellence
4. Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms:	A Battle for Dominance in Mobile Payments
5. Videos for class discussion:
 Strategic Management: Network Externalities - Melissa Schilling https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CIp7TR2R4gg

6. Video for students Exploration: How the platform ecosystem works”
       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J0kdOlqgF6E) Deliverables: Team Case Study 1 – Due: 09/28/21 Case 1
 A battle for Dominance in Mobile Payments – Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 4, page 67
o Read and analyze the case
o Research the topic
o Answer the five questions on page 70

Session 5, 10/05/21
Topic Description: Timing of Entry
Outline of Topics:
1. Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 5 – Timing of Entry
 Discuss how a first mover may be able to build brand loyalty and a reputation for technological leadership, preemptively capture scare resources, and exploit buyer
switching costs.
 Explain how first movers may benefit from increasing returns to adoption due to learning curve effects and network externalities.
 Describe how first movers bear the brunt of R&D expenses.
 Discuss how first movers may face poor supplier markets.
 Explain the biggest disadvantage is uncertainty over customer requirements.
 Discuss the advantages of entering a market early.
2. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 5 – Customer-Driven Change
 What’s more important: People or Technology?
 Why organizations struggle and become irrelevant?
 What are the principles of successful transformation?
 Is your digital workforce digitally proficient?
3. Reading:
 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 5 – Timing of Entry
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 5 – Customer-Driven Change
 Rita McGrath and Ryan McManus (2020). Harvard Business Review: Discovery- Driven Digital Transformation, Reprint: R2002J, May-June 2020
4. Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: UberAIR
5. Videos for class discussion: "
 Who Killed The Electric Car" Cut to 6 mins By: Steve Todey https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l3OnYjP4FTk
6. Video for students Exploration:
• Who Killed The Electric Car – Trailer	https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=k96tIRjxzw0

 Who Killed The Electric Car Movie Full Version https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3fW4xYBXdGo
 Revenge of the Electric Car Documentary https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GXJnS9RgKsg
Deliverables:

Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual
• Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope



Module 2: T.I. Strategy


No Class: 10/12/21

Session 6, 10/19/21
Topic Description: Strategic Direction
Outline of Topics:
1. Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 6 – Defining the Organization’s Strategic Direction
 Analyze Porter’s five-force model.
 Discuss stakeholder analysis.
 Explain how some core competencies can become core rigidities that limit the firm’s
ability to respond to a changing environment.
 Describe conditions or barriers that make it difficult or expensive for new firms to enter and industry.
 Explain vertical integration.
 Illustrate examples of value chain analysis.
2. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 6 – Strategy vs. Execution
 When is the last time you have communicated the digital strategy?
 What does it mean to be a transformational leader?
 How to set a winning transformation strategy?
 What could and will derail the transformation initiatives?
 How to get the “wagon” back on the track?
3. Reading:
 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 6 – Defining the Organization’s Strategic Direction
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 6 – Strategy vs. Execution
4. Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Tesla, Inc. in 2018
5. Videos for class discussion: "Meet Apple's Newest Invention: The Apple Car https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pRuLtyIEBDA
6. Case for students Exploration: Apple’s Future: Apple watch, Apple TV, and/or Apple car? (HBS) Optional https://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=51228


Deliverables:
• Team Case Study 2 – Due: 10/19/21
Case 2
 Tesla, Inc. in 2018 – Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 6, page 115

o Read and analyze the case
o Research the topic
o Answer the six questions on page 122

Session 7, 10/26/21
Topic Description: Projects Evaluation
Outline of Topics:
1. Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 7 – Choosing Innovation Projects
 Explain how firms often use a combination of quantitative and qualitative methods to
evaluate which projects should be funded.
 Discuss the most commonly used quantitative methods of evaluating projects are discounted cash flow methods such as net present value.
 Describe how firms used a real option approach to assess project.
 Explain a commonly used qualitative method of assessing development projects.
 Discuss Q-sort a qualitative method of assessing projects.
 Explain conjoint analysis.
2. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 7 – Hire Captains, Not Kings or Queens
 Why hiring is so difficult?
 Are people assets or liability?
 Who are the most valuable players?
 Is reverse mentoring beneficial to companies?
 Can you teach passion?
3. Reading:

 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 7 – Choosing Innovation Projects
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 7 – Hire Captains, Not Kings or Queens
4. Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Where Should We Focus Our Innovation Efforts?
5. Videos for class discussion: " Choosing New Projects (Chapter 7): Melissa Schilling
https://youtu.be/0QOdd45aZ1o
6. Case for students Exploration: Amgen: Pursuing innovation and imitation? (HBS) OPTIONAL : https://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=46201

Deliverables:
• Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual MIDTERM
o Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope
o	Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing


Session 8, 11/02/21
Topic Description: Collaboration Strategy

Outline of Topics:
1. Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 8 – Collaboration Strategy
 Explain how firms may outsource particular activities.
 Discuss why groups of organizations may form collective research organizations to
jointly work on advanced research projects.
 Explain why successful collaboration requires choosing partners that have a resource fit and a strategic fit.
 Describe the advantages and disadvantages of collaborating on a development project.
 Identify examples of collaboration between two or more organizations.
 Summarize different tradeoffs between different modes of development.
2. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 8 – Integrated Ecosystems
 Why people think of Digital Transformation as back-office processes?
Why social collaboration is a prerequisite to digital transformation?
Why it is so difficult for users to adopt new technologies? What’s the strategy to deal with knowledge workers?
How to solve the information overload challenge?
3. Reading:
 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 8 – Collaboration Strategy
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 8 – Integrated Ecosystems
4. Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Ending HIV? Sangamo Therapeutics and Gene Editing
5. Videos for class discussion:
 Collaboration types: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tJlJJhPJHs0&t
 Collaboration partners and governance: https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=EHULUlCYOUQ
6. Video for students Exploration: Jack Hughes - Collaboration by Competition https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rS6bzWA2r38
Deliverables:
• Innovative Idea Introduction - Individual
o Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope
o Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing
o	Market Research

Session 9, 11/09/21
Topic Description: Protecting Innovation
Outline of Topics:
1. Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 9 – Protecting Innovation
 Explain patents, trademarks, and copyrights.
 Discuss how forms that protect their intellectual property as a trade secret often have
legal recourse if another party wrongfully takes and uses such property.
 Describe how protecting an innovation helps ensure that the firm earns the lion’s share of the return.
 Define and explain wholly proprietary systems.

 Explain original equipment manufacturers.
 Discuss architectural control
2. 2, Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 9 – Digital Proficiency and Innovation
 Has the advanced technology become commodity?
Why digital proficiency is more important than transformational technologies?
How to lead discovery-driven digital transformation? Are the robots taking the world over?
 Where do humans fit in the digital revolution?
3. Reading:
 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 9 – Protecting Innovation
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 9 – Digital Proficiency and Innovation
4. Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: The Digital Music Distribution Revolution
5. Article for class discussion: Harroch, R. 2017. “10 Intellectual Property Strategies for Startups,” Forbes, June 6th. https://www.forbes.com/sites/allbusiness/2017/06/06/10- intellectual-property-strategies-for-technology-startups/#16c72728ab1b)
Deliverables:
• Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual
o Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope
o Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing
o Market Research
o	Administrative Structure



Module 3: Implementing T.I. Strategy


Session 10, 11/16/21
Topic Description: Organizing for Innovation
Outline of Topics:
1. Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 10 – Organizing for Innovation
 Explain the impact of firm size on innovation.
 Discuss how many firms attempt to make big companies feel small by breaking them
into networks or more specialized divisions.
 Describe how the structural dimensions of the firm; including formalization, standardization, and centralization, also affects the firms’ propensity to innovate.
 Explain how to structure a firm to improve its likelihood of innovating.
 Discuss managing new product development processes to maximize fir with
customer needs.

 Describe how to compose, structure, and manage new product development teams to maximize new product development effectiveness.
2. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 10 – Are you ”Digitally Determined” or “Digitally Distraught”?

	What’s your digital strategy?
Why digital transformation seems to be confusing?
What is your definition of digital transformation?
What are your fundamental digital transformation objectives? Determined or distraught?
3. Reading:
 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 10 – Organizing for Innovation
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 10 – Are you ”Digitally Determined” or “Digitally Distraught”?
4. Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms:  Organizing for Innovation at Google
5. Videos for class discussion: Google’s Principles of Innovation: How we create, launch, and iterate Google - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=deDncBTgy5I
6. Video for students Exploration: Innovation at Google - Google https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2GtgSkmDnbQ

Deliverables: Individual Assignment 2 – Due: 11/16/21
Assignment 2
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 9-10,12
o Review the relevant materials
o Research the topic
o Answer the following questions:
 Has the advanced technology become commodity?
 Are the robots taking the world over?
 What is your definition of the digital innovation?
 What does “User Experience” mean to humans and robots (Ch12)?
Session 11, 11/23/21
Topic Description: Managing the New Product Development Process Outline of Topics:
1. Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 11 – Managing the New Product Development Process
 Objectives of the new product development process
 Sequential versus partly parallel development process
 Product champions
 Involving customers and suppliers in the development process
 Tools for improving the new product development process
 Tools for measuring new product development performance
2. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 11 – Use Case: The Smart City
 What are the boundaries of digital transformation? Why system of systems need digital connectivity? What are the areas of smartness?
Why changing people’s habits is more important than changing the technology?
3. Reading:
 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 11 – Managing the New Product Development Process
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 11 – Use Case: The Smart City

4. Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Scrums, Sprints, and Burnouts: Agile Development at Cisco Systems
5. Case for students Exploration: Webasto: Co-creating innovation with lead users (UC Berkeley)	https://safeassignments.net/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/CIE-Case- Webasto-co-creating-innovation-with-lead-users-Case111.pdf


Deliverables:
• Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual
o Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope
o Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing
o Market Research
o Administrative Structure
o	Marketing Plan


Session 12, 11/30/21
Topic Description: New Product Development Teams
Outline of Topics:
1. Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 12 – Managing New Product Development Teams
 Constructing new product development teams
 The structure of new product development teams
 The management of new product development teams
2. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 12 – Looking Ahead: Runway or Precipice?
 How intelligent is Artificial Intelligence?
 Why robots will not take your job?
 What does “User Experience” mean to humans and robots?
 What happens when great platforms go down?
 Why people are fooled by the look and feel?
3. Reading:
 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 12 – Managing New Product Development Teams
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 12 – Looking Ahead: Runway or Precipice?
4. Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Innovation Teams at the Walt Disney Company
5. Videos for class discussion: Linda Hill: How to manage for collective creativity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DjcZrtcBZi4
6. Video for students Exploration: How Pixar Fosters Collective Creativity (HBR) https://hbr.org/2008/09/how-pixar-fosters-collective-creativity


Deliverables:
• Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual
o Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope
o Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing
o Market Research
o Administrative Structure

o Marketing Plan
o	Financials



Session 13, 12/07/21
Topic: – Crafting a Deployment Strategy
Outline of Topics:
1. Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 13 – Crafting a Deployment Strategy
 Launching Timing
 Licensing and compatibility
 Pricing
 Distribution
 Marketing
2. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 13 – AI: The Elephant in the Room
 What AI is and is not?
 What’s the impact of AI on the workplace? Is AI capable to find needles in haystack?
Is there a difference between AI and Data Science?
Why Discovery-Driven Digital Transformation is the answer?
3. Reading:
 Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 13 – Crafting a Deployment Strategy
 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 13 – The Elephant in the Room
4. Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Deployment Tactics in the Global Video Game Industry
5. Videos for class discussion: Deployment Tactics in the Global Video Game Industry
6. Video for students Exploration:	Waters, R. “Stand Out from the Cloud Crowd,” FT.com, 4/26/11, http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/52258b34-7049-11e0-bea7- 00144feabdc0.html#axzz24ys46Ivw



Deliverables: Final Case Presentation – Volunteers Rehearsal
• Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual
o	Executive Summary
o Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope
o Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing
o Market Research
o Administrative Structure
o Marketing Plan
o Financials

Session 14, 12/14/21 – FINAL PRESENTATION
Topic: INDIVIDUAL CASE PROJECT PRESENTATION
 Final Case Presentation
 Course wrap-up
Reading:
 None
Deliverables: Final Case Presentation Due: 12/14/21
• Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual
o Executive Summary
o Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope
o Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing
o Market Research
o Administrative Structure
o Marketing Plan
o Financials


At the discretion of the faculty, the syllabus may be modified to better meet the needs of the students and to achieve the learning outcomes established in the syllabus.


