  Strategic Management of Technological Innovation  COURSE DESCRIPTION: This course prepares students to meet the demands of strategic planning in a technology-driven organization. It addresses optimizing the R&D (Research and Development) cycle, smooth transition from design to production, innovation streams, and integration of technology with business strategy. Focusing on case studies, students learn real-world technology decision- making strategies, including allocation of resources, managing complex technology initiatives, and management of technology teams. The course examines the role technological innovations play in the competitive dynamics of industries and the use of metrics to evaluate new product effectiveness and innovation performance. Students create individual proposals for applications of technological innovations to address business needs.   COURSE LEARNING OUTCOMES: At the conclusion of this course, students will be able to: Apply innovation concepts to the management of technological innovation Apply analysis tools to determine the success potential of applying an innovation Apply an emerging technology to create economic benefit for an organization Design intellectual property protection strategies for the created innovations Create metrics to increase the success rate of technological innovation application projects  Assignments: All assignments will be posted at NYU Brightspace and the templates uploaded to the folder on NYU Brightspace labeled “Assignments.”  Assignment due dates are final and non-negotiable.  Materials during excused absences: You should find out what was covered in the missed session by speaking to a fellow classmate and checking the NYU Brightspace course site to review all the resources provided by your instructor.  If you missed assignments during the add/drop course process, contact your instructor regarding makeup assignments that may be provided to you  There will be Individual Assignments on the specific topic(s) covered in the related classes. Usually under MS PowerPoint Presentation There will be 2 team Case Studies on the specific topics selected by the instructor. Usually under MS PowerPoint Presentation There will be 1 individual innovative idea introduction high level presentation. Length of Innovative Idea under MS PowerPoint Presentation slides to convince the audience why such idea needs to be implemented and how such idea will solve the problem. There will be 1 Final Case Project centered on the specific industry selected by students where students will design a plan for technological innovation, perform the study, and present the findings. Length of Final Case Study: should of the length sufficient to present feasible innovative solution to the problem, under MS PowerPoint Presentation   INDIVIDUAL ASSIGNMENTS:  Students are expected to complete individual readings and complete individual assignments during the course. Frequent and high-quality participation in class discussions is required.  FINAL CASE PROJECT:  The Final Case Project will be due by Class 14 and formally presented during that session to Professor and we may have External Judges invited in order to review the presentation and provide constructive feedback to each project. 
The purpose of the project is to provide students with a hands-on experience with the intricacies, complexities, planning, meeting requirements, making presentation, and project reporting. You will be provided with the structure and opportunity to develop a professional caliber High Level Business Plan. You will accomplish this by application of the skills and ideas you have learned in your other courses at NYU and through feedback from your professor, peers and panelists (in response to your class presentations, your final presentation)  You will also observe how others’ ideas and presentations have been received and challenged, which you will sometimes have to infer how your own ideas can be improved. You should be an active contributor to others’ ideas.  We can consider the Final Case Project developments as part of a collaborative workshop.  All students should be ready to present the status and content of hers/his Final Case Project in each class (based on progress detailed in Syllabus – Course Outline). This activity is considered Class Participation and Final Case Project.  It will be a much more rewarding exercise for you however, the stronger your business idea is, so in general the more preparation and thought you put into your idea – both in advance of the first day of class and throughout the semester – the more gratifying your outcome will be and the more you will get out of the course.  In case that a student is willing to develop and APP as Final Case Project you will need to follow Systems Devolvement Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology and the high-level informatics needs to be addressed as well as infrastructure to support the APP. Professor will provide specific guidance and template in this case.   Having completed the project, students are required to submit a final presentation, which includes a deck of the project and its expectations.   CASE STUDIES: To better facilitate discussion and student engagement, the class might be divided into groups for Case Analysis.  All team members should contribute to the case studies. Submit a single paper for the team identifying which team member contributed to which part of the case. Include your team number, team members, date, type each question and answers, and include in text and end references. The team cases will be evaluated on both and individual and group level.  Please refer to the Course Outline below for Readings, Class Assignments and Cases. Please review the Grading Policy below.  REQUIRED AND RECOMMENDED MATERIAL Required Text Books Schilling, M. A. (2020). Strategic Management of Technological Innovation. 6th Edition, McGraw-Hill Education. ISBN: 9781260087956  This book is a part of the Follett Access program. This is an NYU Bookstore initiative that delivers required course materials digitally at the lowest possible price. The book for this course Strategic Management of Technological Innovation, will be delivered to you digitally through the CONNECT platform. Here is the - link.  Bookstore contact info: email - wsq.text@nyu.edu phone - 212-998-4656  Brief Table of Contents Preface Introduction	1 PART ONE	Industry Dynamics of Technological Innovation	13 Sources of Innovation	15 Types and Patterns of Innovation	43 Standards Battles and Design Dominance	67 Timing of Entry	95 
PART TWOFormulating Technological Innovation Strategy1136. Defining the Organization's Strategic Direction1157. Choosing Innovation Projects1418. Collaboration Strategies1679. Protecting Innovation197PART THREEImplementing Technological Innovation Strategy22310. Organizing for Innovation225Managing the New Product Development Process 249 Managing New Product Development Teams	277 Crafting a Deployment Strategy	297 Index	327 Yuri B. Aguiar (2020). Digital (R)evolution: Strategies to Accelerate Business Transformation. 1st Edition, John Wiley & Sons, ISBN-13: 978-1119619734, ISBN-10: 1119619734 Amazon: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B086Z84Y81/ref=dp-kindle-redirect? _encoding=UTF8&btkr=1  Brief Table of Contents Preface 
              Required Papers 
Drivers of Change	1 Focus and Discipline	17 Idea Incubation	27 Operational Excellence	45 Customer-Driven Change	57 Strategy vs. Execution	73 Hire Captains, Not Kings of Queens	85 Integrated Ecosystems	101 Digital Proficiency and Innovation	125 Are You “Digitally Determined” or “Digitally Distraught”?	137 Use Case: The Smart City	159 Looking Ahead: Runway or Precipice?	169 AI: The Elephant in the Room	189 Index	227 
	Rita McGrath and Ryan McManus (2020). Harvard Business Review: Discovery-Driven Digital Transformation, Reprint: R2002J, May-June 2020 Harvard Business Publishing Education (HBPE). Students will need to register to HBPE in order to get access to the the digital course pack with the paper detailed above. Student Link: https://hbsp.harvard.edu/import/857331 Name of the course pack: NYU MASY Strategic Management and Technological Innovation - ALVAREZ-POUSA  Recommended Papers McGahan, A. M. (2000). How industries evolve. Business Strategy Review, 11(3), 1-16. McGahan, A. M. (2004). How industries change. Harvard Business Review, 82(10), 86-94. 
Nadan, J. S. (2014). Using innovation science to minimize entrepreneurial risk. In Innovations in Technology Conference (InnoTek), 2014 IEEE (pp. 1-7). IEEE. Porter, M. E. (2008) The Five Competitive Forces that Shape Strategy Ulwick, A. W. (2009). What Is Outcome-Driven Innovation® (ODI)? White Paper, Strategy Michaelides, D. (2011). The art of innovation in the public sector. International Journal of Innovation Science, 3(3), 117-126.  ASSESSMENT STRATEGY: 
GRADING RUBRICIndividual Class participationAll10 %Group Class participationAll10%Industry Case Studies by GroupSession 4 and 6, 5 % each10%Individual AssignmentsSessions 3, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 1320%Individual Innovative Business Idea introductionSession 510%Midtermsession 710%Final Individual Case Studysession 1430%TOTAL100%   % . With regard to the case studies students will be expected to work in groups and show a progressively more in-depth knowledge of their industry as the semester progresses. The focus of the assignments will advance from the descriptive and basic topics to the analytical and advanced subjects. Homework assignments will focus on lesson topics. Students will be expected to provide, concise, tersely written papers reflecting a strong grasp of the subject matter. There will be equal weightings for structure – clarity of presentation – and content. *Please note that you will be provided with the parameters and the additional criteria on how you will be measured for each of the assessments listed above in class

 COURSE OUTLINE: Start/End Dates: 09/07/2021 - 12/14/2021 / Tuesdays Time: 06:20pm -- 08:55pm EDT/EST No Class Date(s): Tuesday, October 12, 2021 The course will cover the chapters listed below. Prior to each class session, please read the chapter(s) listed that will be covered on that specific date. Completed individual assignments, team cases, individual final case, should be uploaded to Brightspace when due. (STUDENTS ARE REQUIRED TO USE A LAPTOP OR TABLET COMPUTER IN EACH CLASS)   Modular Course Structure        
Module 1 Technological Innovation (T.I.) 
 Module 2 Strategy 
Module 3 Implementing T.I. Strategy 
       MODULE 1: TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION (T.I.) - FROM SESSION 01 TO SESSION 05 MODULE 2: T.I. STRATEGY – FROM SESSION 06 TO SESSION 09 MODULE 3: IMPLEMENTING T.I. STRATEGY –	FROM SESSION 10 TO SESSION 14  Class 1: 09/07/21  •   Module 1: TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION (T.I.)   Session 1, 09/07/21 Topic Description: Course Intro – Course Dynamics - Innovation 
Outline of Topics: Introduction: Introductions of students and instructor Review of Syllabus Introduction to the Course and Overview of Course Requirements and Assignments Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 1 - Introduction Discuss the importance innovation for firms to compete. Demonstrate the advantages and disadvantages of technological innovation. Explain why some innovation projects fail to generate and economic return. Describe innovation by industry and the importance of strategy. Illustrate the innovation funnel. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 1 – Drivers of Change What is discovery-driven digital transformation? What’s left for humans? Is your company a candidate for digital disruption? Why discovery-driven digital transformation is needed? How to get from the current state to the digital level? Reading: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 1 – Introduction Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 1 – Drivers of Change Video to discuss in class: What is Innovation?	MIT OpenCourseWare https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=oD7X3KvJAVk Deliverables: Individual Assignment 1A – Your Intro  Session 2, 09/14/21 Topic Description: Sources of Innovation Outline of Topics: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 2 – Sources of Innovation Explain the government’s role in conducting research and development. Describe how private nonprofit organizations are a source of innovation. Illustrate how organizations perform their own R&D and also fund R&D that is performed by others. Discuss how the most significant source of innovation is a result of collaborative efforts. Explain how collaboration is often facilitated by geographical proximity. Discuss the benefits of technology spillovers. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 2 – Focus and Discipline Who is responsible for transformation? How to identify the opportunity to discover specific problems that can be addressed in a digital solution? How different are the “Always-on” digital natives? What is needed for your immediate survival? 
Does discovery-driven digital transformation need to be micromanaged? Video to discuss in class: Innovation, sources of individual creativity:	https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=j3jKzYnzC6c&t Reading: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 2 – Sources of Innovation Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 2 – Focus and Discipline Forum: Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: The Rise of “Clean Meat”, Video for students Exploration: “The Era of Open Innovation” (TED Talk): https://www.ted.com/talks/charles_leadbeater_on_innovation?language=en Deliverables: Teams formation  Session 3, 09/21/21 Topic Description: Types of Innovation Outline of Topics: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 3 – Types and Patterns of Innovation Discuss how the dominant design rarely embodies the most advanced technological features available at the time of emergence. List and explain some reasons that established firms might resist adopting new technology. Illustrate the reasons why both technology improvement and technology diffusion exhibit s-shape curves. Explain the benefits of a company developing technology beyond the current state of the market needs. Discuss the factors that influence the length of technology cycles in an industry. Explain why technology that initially serves on low-end customers may eventually meet the needs of the mass market. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 3 – Idea Incubation Why innovation is essential for success? What’s the challenge with the digital transformation in high-performing organizations? How to overcome inclination to risk avoidance? Why organizations need empowered champions? Why most of the organizations struggle with the transformation? How to approach and propose the transformation? Reading: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 3 – Types and Patterns of Innovation Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 3 – Idea Incubation Forum: Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Innovating in India: The Chotukool Project 
Videos for class discussion: Varieties of Innovation - MIT OpenCourseWare https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=1mw_Uo5ba58 Video for students Exploration: Types and Patterns of Innovation	Shirley Shmerling : Https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkWnxzgC1Z4 Deliverables: Individual Assignment 1 – Due: 09/21/21 Assignment 1 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 1-3 Review the relevant materials Research the topic Answer the following questions: Is your company/industry a candidate for digital disruption? What is needed for your company/industry immediate survival? Why most of organizations struggle with the innovative transformation?  Session 4, 09/28/21 Topic Description: Platform Competition Outline of Topics: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 4 – Standard Battles, Modularity, and Platform Competition Discuss how many technologies demonstrate increasing returns to adoption, meaning that the more they are adopted the more valuable they become. Explain one primary source of increasing returns s learning-curve effects. Describe how the more a technology is produced and used the better understood and developed it becomes. Explain another key factor creating increasing returns is network externality effects. Discuss how in some industries the consumer welfare benefits if having a single standard have prompted government regulations. Explain how increasing returns can lead to winner take all. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 4 – Operational Excellence What’s the relationship between operational excellence and customer experience? Who are your customers in the “service” economy? How to use data and analytics to make a case to executives and others? Where to look for the problems and pain points? Is the response time or solution time that matter? Reading: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 4 – Standard Battles, Modularity, and Platform Competition Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 4 – Operational Excellence Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms:	A Battle for Dominance in Mobile Payments Videos for class discussion: Strategic Management: Network Externalities - Melissa Schilling https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CIp7TR2R4gg 
Video for students Exploration: How the platform ecosystem works” https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J0kdOlqgF6E) Deliverables: Team Case Study 1 – Due: 09/28/21 Case 1 A battle for Dominance in Mobile Payments – Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 4, page 67 Read and analyze the case Research the topic Answer the five questions on page 70  Session 5, 10/05/21 Topic Description: Timing of Entry Outline of Topics: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 5 – Timing of Entry Discuss how a first mover may be able to build brand loyalty and a reputation for technological leadership, preemptively capture scare resources, and exploit buyer switching costs. Explain how first movers may benefit from increasing returns to adoption due to learning curve effects and network externalities. Describe how first movers bear the brunt of R&D expenses. Discuss how first movers may face poor supplier markets. Explain the biggest disadvantage is uncertainty over customer requirements. Discuss the advantages of entering a market early. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 5 – Customer-Driven Change What’s more important: People or Technology? Why organizations struggle and become irrelevant? What are the principles of successful transformation? Is your digital workforce digitally proficient? Reading: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 5 – Timing of Entry Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 5 – Customer-Driven Change Rita McGrath and Ryan McManus (2020). Harvard Business Review: Discovery- Driven Digital Transformation, Reprint: R2002J, May-June 2020 Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: UberAIR Videos for class discussion: " Who Killed The Electric Car" Cut to 6 mins By: Steve Todey https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l3OnYjP4FTk Video for students Exploration: Who Killed The Electric Car – Trailer	https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=k96tIRjxzw0  Who Killed The Electric Car Movie Full Version https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3fW4xYBXdGo Revenge of the Electric Car Documentary https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GXJnS9RgKsg Deliverables: 
Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope    Module 2: T.I. Strategy   No Class: 10/12/21  Session 6, 10/19/21 Topic Description: Strategic Direction Outline of Topics: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 6 – Defining the Organization’s Strategic Direction Analyze Porter’s five-force model. Discuss stakeholder analysis. Explain how some core competencies can become core rigidities that limit the firm’s ability to respond to a changing environment. Describe conditions or barriers that make it difficult or expensive for new firms to enter and industry. Explain vertical integration. Illustrate examples of value chain analysis. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 6 – Strategy vs. Execution When is the last time you have communicated the digital strategy? What does it mean to be a transformational leader? How to set a winning transformation strategy? What could and will derail the transformation initiatives? How to get the “wagon” back on the track? Reading: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 6 – Defining the Organization’s Strategic Direction Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 6 – Strategy vs. Execution Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Tesla, Inc. in 2018 Videos for class discussion: "Meet Apple's Newest Invention: The Apple Car https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pRuLtyIEBDA Case for students Exploration: Apple’s Future: Apple watch, Apple TV, and/or Apple car? (HBS) Optional https://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=51228   Deliverables: Team Case Study 2 – Due: 10/19/21 Case 2 Tesla, Inc. in 2018 – Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 6, page 115 
Read and analyze the case Research the topic Answer the six questions on page 122  Session 7, 10/26/21 Topic Description: Projects Evaluation Outline of Topics: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 7 – Choosing Innovation Projects Explain how firms often use a combination of quantitative and qualitative methods to evaluate which projects should be funded. Discuss the most commonly used quantitative methods of evaluating projects are discounted cash flow methods such as net present value. Describe how firms used a real option approach to assess project. Explain a commonly used qualitative method of assessing development projects. Discuss Q-sort a qualitative method of assessing projects. Explain conjoint analysis. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 7 – Hire Captains, Not Kings or Queens Why hiring is so difficult? Are people assets or liability? Who are the most valuable players? Is reverse mentoring beneficial to companies? Can you teach passion? Reading:  Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 7 – Choosing Innovation Projects Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 7 – Hire Captains, Not Kings or Queens Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Where Should We Focus Our Innovation Efforts? Videos for class discussion: " Choosing New Projects (Chapter 7): Melissa Schilling https://youtu.be/0QOdd45aZ1o Case for students Exploration: Amgen: Pursuing innovation and imitation? (HBS) OPTIONAL : https://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=46201  Deliverables: Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual MIDTERM Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope o	Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing   Session 8, 11/02/21 Topic Description: Collaboration Strategy 
Outline of Topics: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 8 – Collaboration Strategy Explain how firms may outsource particular activities. Discuss why groups of organizations may form collective research organizations to jointly work on advanced research projects. Explain why successful collaboration requires choosing partners that have a resource fit and a strategic fit. Describe the advantages and disadvantages of collaborating on a development project. Identify examples of collaboration between two or more organizations. Summarize different tradeoffs between different modes of development. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 8 – Integrated Ecosystems Why people think of Digital Transformation as back-office processes? Why social collaboration is a prerequisite to digital transformation? Why it is so difficult for users to adopt new technologies? What’s the strategy to deal with knowledge workers? How to solve the information overload challenge? Reading: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 8 – Collaboration Strategy Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 8 – Integrated Ecosystems Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Ending HIV? Sangamo Therapeutics and Gene Editing Videos for class discussion: Collaboration types: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tJlJJhPJHs0&t Collaboration partners and governance: https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=EHULUlCYOUQ Video for students Exploration: Jack Hughes - Collaboration by Competition https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rS6bzWA2r38 Deliverables: Innovative Idea Introduction - Individual Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing o	Market Research  Session 9, 11/09/21 Topic Description: Protecting Innovation Outline of Topics: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 9 – Protecting Innovation Explain patents, trademarks, and copyrights. Discuss how forms that protect their intellectual property as a trade secret often have legal recourse if another party wrongfully takes and uses such property. Describe how protecting an innovation helps ensure that the firm earns the lion’s share of the return. Define and explain wholly proprietary systems. 
Explain original equipment manufacturers. Discuss architectural control 2, Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 9 – Digital Proficiency and Innovation Has the advanced technology become commodity? Why digital proficiency is more important than transformational technologies? How to lead discovery-driven digital transformation? Are the robots taking the world over? Where do humans fit in the digital revolution? Reading: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 9 – Protecting Innovation Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 9 – Digital Proficiency and Innovation Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: The Digital Music Distribution Revolution Article for class discussion: Harroch, R. 2017. “10 Intellectual Property Strategies for Startups,” Forbes, June 6th. https://www.forbes.com/sites/allbusiness/2017/06/06/10- intellectual-property-strategies-for-technology-startups/#16c72728ab1b) Deliverables: Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing Market Research o	Administrative Structure    Module 3: Implementing T.I. Strategy   Session 10, 11/16/21 Topic Description: Organizing for Innovation Outline of Topics: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 10 – Organizing for Innovation Explain the impact of firm size on innovation. Discuss how many firms attempt to make big companies feel small by breaking them into networks or more specialized divisions. Describe how the structural dimensions of the firm; including formalization, standardization, and centralization, also affects the firms’ propensity to innovate. Explain how to structure a firm to improve its likelihood of innovating. Discuss managing new product development processes to maximize fir with customer needs.  Describe how to compose, structure, and manage new product development teams to maximize new product development effectiveness. Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 10 – Are you ”Digitally Determined” or “Digitally Distraught”? 
	What’s your digital strategy? Why digital transformation seems to be confusing? What is your definition of digital transformation? What are your fundamental digital transformation objectives? Determined or distraught? Reading: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 10 – Organizing for Innovation Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 10 – Are you ”Digitally Determined” or “Digitally Distraught”? Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms:  Organizing for Innovation at Google Videos for class discussion: Google’s Principles of Innovation: How we create, launch, and iterate Google - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=deDncBTgy5I Video for students Exploration: Innovation at Google - Google https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2GtgSkmDnbQ  Deliverables: Individual Assignment 2 – Due: 11/16/21 Assignment 2 Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 9-10,12 Review the relevant materials Research the topic Answer the following questions: Has the advanced technology become commodity? Are the robots taking the world over? What is your definition of the digital innovation? What does “User Experience” mean to humans and robots (Ch12)? Session 11, 11/23/21 Topic Description: Managing the New Product Development Process Outline of Topics: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 11 – Managing the New Product Development Process Objectives of the new product development process Sequential versus partly parallel development process Product champions Involving customers and suppliers in the development process Tools for improving the new product development process Tools for measuring new product development performance Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 11 – Use Case: The Smart City What are the boundaries of digital transformation? Why system of systems need digital connectivity? What are the areas of smartness? Why changing people’s habits is more important than changing the technology? Reading: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 11 – Managing the New Product Development Process Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 11 – Use Case: The Smart City 
Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Scrums, Sprints, and Burnouts: Agile Development at Cisco Systems Case for students Exploration: Webasto: Co-creating innovation with lead users (UC Berkeley)	https://safeassignments.net/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/CIE-Case- Webasto-co-creating-innovation-with-lead-users-Case111.pdf   Deliverables: Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing Market Research Administrative Structure o	Marketing Plan   Session 12, 11/30/21 Topic Description: New Product Development Teams Outline of Topics: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 12 – Managing New Product Development Teams Constructing new product development teams The structure of new product development teams The management of new product development teams Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 12 – Looking Ahead: Runway or Precipice? How intelligent is Artificial Intelligence? Why robots will not take your job? What does “User Experience” mean to humans and robots? What happens when great platforms go down? Why people are fooled by the look and feel? Reading: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 12 – Managing New Product Development Teams Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 12 – Looking Ahead: Runway or Precipice? Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Innovation Teams at the Walt Disney Company Videos for class discussion: Linda Hill: How to manage for collective creativity https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DjcZrtcBZi4 Video for students Exploration: How Pixar Fosters Collective Creativity (HBR) https://hbr.org/2008/09/how-pixar-fosters-collective-creativity   Deliverables: Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing Market Research Administrative Structure 
Marketing Plan o	Financials    Session 13, 12/07/21 Topic: – Crafting a Deployment Strategy Outline of Topics: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 13 – Crafting a Deployment Strategy Launching Timing Licensing and compatibility Pricing Distribution Marketing Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 13 – AI: The Elephant in the Room What AI is and is not? What’s the impact of AI on the workplace? Is AI capable to find needles in haystack? Is there a difference between AI and Data Science? Why Discovery-Driven Digital Transformation is the answer? Reading: Strategic Management of Technological Innovation – Chapter 13 – Crafting a Deployment Strategy Digital (R)evolution - Chapter 13 – The Elephant in the Room Participate in a Zoom Breakout Rooms: Deployment Tactics in the Global Video Game Industry Videos for class discussion: Deployment Tactics in the Global Video Game Industry Video for students Exploration:	Waters, R. “Stand Out from the Cloud Crowd,” FT.com, 4/26/11, http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/52258b34-7049-11e0-bea7- 00144feabdc0.html#axzz24ys46Ivw    Deliverables: Final Case Presentation – Volunteers Rehearsal Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual o	Executive Summary Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing Market Research Administrative Structure Marketing Plan Financial
Session 14, 12/14/21 – FINAL PRESENTATION Topic: INDIVIDUAL CASE PROJECT PRESENTATION Final Case Presentation Course wrap-up Reading: None Deliverables: Final Case Presentation Due: 12/14/21 Innovative Idea Introduction – Individual Executive Summary Business Idea: Problem, Solution Proposed, Scope Product/Service, Manufacturing/Sourcing Market Research Administrative Structure Marketing Plan Financials   At the discretion of the faculty, the syllabus may be modified to better meet the needs of the students and to achieve the learning outcomes established in the syllabus. 
 

